# yuee
Classification of Cancer Causing Genes

Cancer is a group of diseases involving abnormal cell growth with the potential to invade or spread to other parts of the body. The majority of cancers are due to genes mutations, which are permanent alterations in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene. Such mutations can be inherited or caused by environmental and lifestyle factors. Two of the cancer driver genes, which are genes that play a role in cancer, are oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes.

Oncogenes (OGs) are genes that normally help cells grow. When an oncogene mutates or changes, it can become a "bad" gene in the sense that it can become permanently turned on or activated when it is not supposed to be. When this happens, the cell grows out of control and can lead to cancer. Tumor suppressor genes (TSGs) are normal genes that slow down cell division, repair DNA mistakes, or tell cells when to die (a process known as apoptosis or programmed cell death). When tumor suppressor genes do not work properly, cells can grow out of control and can lead to cancer too. The OGs and TSGs work together to keep the balance between cell growth and apoptosis. However, when key genetic alterations accumulate, this balance is disrupted and cancer will happen.

Discovery of cancer driver genes, including TSGs and OGs, is imperative for cancer prevention, diagnosis, and treatment. In the past few decades, scientists have identified about 250 TSGs, 250 OGs and about 4000 neutral genes (NGs; genes that are not TSGs or NGs). However, this number is still too small compared to the total number of more than 20,000 genes in the whole human genome. In recent years, many large sequencing projects have been launched to catalogue genetic mutations responsible for cancer and these projects have generated unprecedentedly large data resources. These datasets have made it possible to discover cancer driver genes using statistical methods instead of biological experiments.

In this project, we will use statistical methods that we have learned in this course to identify both TSGs and OGs. We will use a comprehensive gene feature dataset as our training set. The predictors are various features of the genes. The response under study involves three classes: a gene being OG, TSG or NG. If we can have an accurate prediction of the class of genes, we can use this model to discover new TSGs and OGs, which will be very useful in cancer diagnosis.
